Built a first-person and interactive 3D World from scratch (no game engine) using C++ and the OpenGL pipeline. The game implements the key features of Minecraft as is described below in the expandable tabs. This includes a diverse landscape with different biomes and terrains, artificial intelligence in the non-playable characters, inventory/crafting systems, and much more. The final product included over 30 pairs of C++ header and source files as well as over a dozen glsl vertex and fragment shader files with over 10,000 total lines of written code. 

##Procedural Terrain / Cave Systems / Objects:

I created a total of four biomes using different procedural and semi-random mathematical functions in order to capture the key characteristics of each given landscape. These four biomes themselves are chosen by the intersection of two semi-random and distinct functions that represent ‘moisture’ and ‘temperature’ where for example the Desert Biome corresponds to a Low-Moisture and High-Temperature environment. These biomes are then blended for fluidity using a linear interpolation function so that the cliffs of a mountain gradually cascade into a desert and the hills of the grassland don’t suddenly flatten once a line is crossed. A given block that is considered can then for example have 60%-20%-5%-15% split for all of its traits/height among the four biomes. Once the height of a block is determined in this manner, certain logical conditions can determine certain attributes including the water levels, snow levels, frequency of trees/objects, dirt, etc. Note that the specifics of the randomness functions are rather complicated but in summary most randomness is built up using Perlin and Worley noise.
In addition to the four biomes that were created there is a system of caves that exist beneath the surface of the walkable world. These can be entered in specific points of the terrain and walked all the way down to the rivers of lava that exist on top of the bedrock that serve as a border for the game (refer to the above video for a walkthrough of this). The key difference in creating this “5th biome” is that instead of having a random function used for determining height, I had to take into account a 3-Dimensional space that could have value of EMPTY/FILLED independent of the blocks above and below it. There were several challenges with this task including the creation of steps down to this space as a natural way into these caves was not as aesthetic.
